[Internal] Documentation: Refactors SDK design and component documentation (#3417)
Azure/azure-cosmos-dotnet-v3: docs/SdkDesign.md

The default pipeline structure is:

```mermaid
flowchart
    RequestInvokerHandler <--> UserHandlers([Any User defined handlers])
    UserHandlers <--> DiagnosticHandler
    DiagnosticHandler <--> TelemetryHandler
    TelemetryHandler <--> RetryHandler[Cross region retries]
    RetryHandler <--> RouteHandler
    RouteHandler <--> IsPartitionedFeedOperation{{Partitioned Feed operation?}}
    IsPartitionedFeedOperation <-- No --> TransportHandler
    IsPartitionedFeedOperation <-- Yes --> InvalidPartitionExceptionRetryHandler
    InvalidPartitionExceptionRetryHandler <--> PartitionKeyRangeHandler
    PartitionKeyRangeHandler <--> TransportHandler
    TransportHandler <--> TransportClient[[Selected Transport]]
```

## Cross region retries

Any failure response from the Transport that matches the [conditions for cross-regional communication](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/troubleshoot-sdk-availability) are handled by the [RetryHandler](../Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/Handler/RetryHandler.cs) through the [ClientRetryPolicy](../Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/ClientRetryPolicy.cs).

> * HTTP connection failures or DNS resolution problems (HttpRequestException) - The account information is refreshed, the current region is marked unavailable to be used, and the request is retried on the next available region after account refresh (if the account has multiple regions).

Author: My intent is to indicate that if there is no other region, then the request fails. If we retry on the next available region and there is no next region, then the retry does not have anywhere to go.

> * HTTP connection failures or DNS resolution problems (HttpRequestException) - The account information is refreshed, the current region is marked unavailable to be used, and the request is retried on the next available region after account refresh (if the account has multiple regions).

Author: Added more information on single region

* HTTP 403 with Substatus 3 - The current region is no longer a Write region (write region failover), the account information is refreshed, and the request is retried on the new Write region.
* HTTP 403 with Substatus 1008 - The current region is not available (adding or removing a region). The region is marked as unavailable and the request retried on the next available region.
* HTTP 404 with Substatus 1002 - Session consistency request where the region did not yet receive the requested Session Token, the request is retried on the primary (write) region for accounts with a single write region or on the next preferred region for accounts with multiple write regions.
* HTTP 503 - The request could not succeed on the region due to repeated TCP connectivity issues, the request is retried on the next preferred region.

## Transport

Once a RequestMessage reaches the [TransportHandler](../Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/Handler/TransportHandler.cs) it will be sent through either the [GatewayStoreModel](../Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/GatewayStoreModel.cs) for HTTP requests and Gateway mode clients or through the ServerStoreModel for clients configured with Direct mode.

> Even on clients configured on Direct mode, there can be [HTTP requests that get routed to Gateway](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/sql/sql-sdk-connection-modes#direct-mode). The `ConnectionMode` defined in the `CosmosClientOptions` affect data-plane operations (operations related to Items, like CRUD or query over existing Items in a Container) but metadata/control-plane operations (that appear as [MetadataRequests](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/monitor-cosmos-db-reference#request-metrics) on Azure Monitor) are sent through HTTP to Gateway.

Author: FFCF on Gateway is just during preview, so no, I would not include that corner case

* [HttpTimeoutPolicyControlPlaneRead](../Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/HttpClient/HttpTimeoutPolicyControlPlaneRead.cs) for control plane (metadata) reads outside the hot path (like initialization or reading the account information).
* [HttpTimeoutPolicyNoRetry](../Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/HttpClient/HttpTimeoutPolicyNoRetry.cs) currently only used for Client Telemetry.
* [HttpTimeoutPolicyDefault](../Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/HttpClient/HttpTimeoutPolicyDefault.cs) used for data-plane item interactions (like CRUD) when the SDK is configured on Gateway mode.

```mermaid
flowchart
    GatewayStoreModel --> GatewayStoreClient
    GatewayStoreClient -- selects --> HttpTimeoutPolicy
    HttpTimeoutPolicy -- sends request through --> CosmosHttpClient
    CosmosHttpClient <-- HTTPS --> GatewayService[(Gateway Service)]
    GatewayService --> IsSuccess{{Request succeeded?}}
    IsSuccess -- No --> IsRetriable{{Transient retryable error / reached max latency?}}
    IsRetriable -- Yes --> HttpTimeoutPolicy

```

## Direct mode retry layer

Direct connectivity is obtained from the `Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos.Direct` package reference.

> > There is an example code branch in the repository for reference purposes that will be linked in this document.

Reviewer: Can we add the link here?

Author: I am already doing so, the links below are pointing to that branch.

* HTTP 410 Substatus 1008 (partition is migrating) responses from the service  -> Refreshes partition map (rediscovers partitions) and retries.
* HTTP 410 Substatus 1007 (partition is splitting) responses from the service  -> Refreshes partition map (rediscovers partitions) and retries.
* HTTP 410 Substatus 1000 responses from the service, up to 3 times  -> Refreshes container map (for cases when the container was recreated with the same name) and retries.
* HTTP 449 responses from the service -> Retries using a random salted period.

```mermaid
flowchart
    ServerStoreModel --> StoreClient
    StoreClient --> ReplicatedResourceClient
    ReplicatedResourceClient -- uses --> GoneAndRetryWithRequestRetryPolicy
    GoneAndRetryWithRequestRetryPolicy --> Consistency[[Consistency stack]]
    Consistency --> TCPClient[TCP implementation]
    TCPClient --> Replica[(Replica X)]
    Replica --> IsSuccess{{Request succeeded?}}
    IsSuccess -- No --> IsRetryable{{Is retryable condition?}}
    IsRetryable -- Yes --> GoneAndRetryWithRequestRetryPolicy

```

## Consistency (direct mode)

> When performing operations through Direct mode, the SDK is involved in checking consistency for Bounded Staleness and Strong accounts. Read requests are handled by the [ConsistencyReader](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-dotnet-v3/blob/msdata/direct/Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/direct/ConsistencyReader.cs) and write requests are handled by the [ConsistencyWriter](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-dotnet-v3/blob/msdata/direct/Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/direct/ConsistencyWriter.cs). The `ConsistencyReader` uses the [QuorumReader](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-dotnet-v3/blob/msdata/direct/Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/direct/QuorumReader.cs) for cases when the consistency is Bounded Staleness or Strong, in which cases, the SDK verifies quorum after performing two requests and comparing the LSNs, if quorum cannot be achieved, the SDK starts what is defined as "barrier requests" to the container waiting for it to achieve quorum. The `ConsistencyWriter` also performs a similar LSN check, after receiving the response from the write, the `GlobalCommittedLSN` and the item `LSN`, if they don't match, barrier requests are also performed.

Reviewer: nit: tried to clean up some sentences, but please make sure the meaning is still correct. 

```suggestion
When performing operations through Direct mode, the SDK is involved in checking consistency for Bounded Staleness and Strong accounts. Read requests are handled by the [ConsistencyReader](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-dotnet-v3/blob/msdata/direct/Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/direct/ConsistencyReader.cs) and write requests are handled by the [ConsistencyWriter](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-dotnet-v3/blob/msdata/direct/Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/direct/ConsistencyWriter.cs). The `ConsistencyReader` uses the [QuorumReader](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cosmos-dotnet-v3/blob/msdata/direct/Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/src/direct/QuorumReader.cs) when the consistency is Bounded Staleness or Strong to verify quorum after performing two requests and comparing the LSNs. If quorum cannot be achieved, the SDK starts what is defined as "barrier requests" to the container and waits for it to achieve quorum. The `ConsistencyWriter` also performs a similar LSN check after receiving the response from the write, the `GlobalCommittedLSN` and the item `LSN`. If they don't match, barrier requests are also performed.
```
